okay Pierre pad internals Pierre pad is
a collaborative document editor you can
use it at Pierre pad net it is a thin
react app a static application right
here very thin but it uses a library
called written in JavaScript called peer
base peer based implements CRD T's uses
there's different types of CRD T's state
operation base TR deity's uses a hybrid
called Delta C or D T's really
interesting paper and the the text is
actually stored in a subtype called a
replica replicable global array that's
the data inside peer base the peer base
also hosts several processes gossip so
you can find out who's interested in the
document they want to edit with stores
it has a store of documents which keeps
in either in the browser or in nodejs on
the disk and distinct protocol so you
can sync your document with the various
peers and at the lowest level it talks
over the network using lib here to pee
or lib p2p and it'll use WebSockets to
get through firewalls through a central
WebSocket star server and it also uses
flood sup for hosting pubs up for
hosting gossip so that's pure pad
internal stuff
[Music]
[Applause]